# [stage0](https://agile-learning.institute/stage0)

Stage0 is a collection of Discord Chat Bots that use Agentic LLM models to help your engineering team  Design, Build, and Run your Software platform. The name comes from rocketry, where stage zero is the launch-pad that launches stage one, and the control center that operates missions. The [stage0 bots](./ECHO.md) help to launch new products, features, or services with day-one support for automated deployment, change management, quality  control, observability, incident response and more. Let's meet the team:

- **[Cat](./bots/CAT.md)** *the customer service rep* lives here on the Stage0 Discord server, and can help you get everything setup and configured. If you don't have a discord server for your product, Cat can help you get one setup. Then they can install the stage0 bot's onto your server to get things started. Join our [Stage0 Discord Server](https://discord.gg/SzNTstqBH2) and open a direct message with @Cat to get started!

- **[Fran](./bots/FRAN.md)** *the Facilitator* will help your design lead guide Stage0 Design Workshops, that use human centered design techniques to capture design specifications for your product, or that new feature your adding. Fran is here to facilitate design thinking exercises for your team anytime. Have your retrospectives facilitated by a neutral moderator that is using human centered techniques to find meaningful ways to improve a process. 

- **[Paul](./bots/PAUL.md)** *the Product Manager* will help your Product Manager map Fran's design specifications onto an Architecture, and deployment environments. They can then use an automated runbook to translate Fran's design specifications into a launch-able prototype. After launch, Paul is always here to help you manage when and where your code is deployed, manage the quality of your code, and proactively maintain your security posture.

- **[Sam](./bots/SAM.md)** *the Support Engineer* staffs the customer support channel, escalating issues to your human engineers as needed. Sam learns from their answers, over time reducing the support load on your engineers. Sam also helps configure monitoring, identify incidents, and coordinates incident responses with your engineering team. Sam leverages monitored metrics, and your history of past issues to help your team find the root cause of an incident, and even automate remediation's. 
